---
title: WSL 2 virtual hard drive issues
category: Tools
tags: [memory, disk, diskpart, virtual hard drives, Linux, wsl ]

wsl_diskpart: https://stephenreescarter.net/how-to-shrink-a-wsl2-virtual-disk/
---

Getting straight into it, [WSL]({% post_url /tech_stack/2020-08-17-techstack %}) has its share of problems compared to native linux - but we're getting there.  

In this post, I address the issue of deleting large files and still not having the space claimed back by the host OS. ( or at least this is the case when you notice it)  

What really happens is , your linux distro does free it from its own file system (ext4 by default). However, this storage exists as a virtual hard disk in your windows file system (NTFS by default).  

Hence, when you delete a large file  or a large number of small files using rm or unlink in WSL, you'll notice that the space is not freed up in your host OS partition.  

If you google a bit in the context of linux, you'll find solutions directing you to ...

```bash
lsof | grep deleted
```

... and then get to the corresponding pid in /proc/ and delete that file.  

Well.., that is not the case here.  

If you examine your disk usage using `du` or GUI analysers such as `baobab`, you'll notice that, you have the space freed in your distro.  

However, when you check on your windows file system - it's the same.
The first time this happened to me, I racked my brains off for a day and finally decided to re-setup my environment : deleting the current virtual hard disk altogether.  

*Today, things could go down the same lane.*

 - But, once I'd found a problem, it wasn't difficult to dial down on the solution : one of them being to use Window's Hyper-V management to optimize the vhd. 

 - But, that needed windows 10 pro or education. I didn't want to make a rash decision. Who wants to purchase an upgrade to fix a "problem"  of the current version ( I have the home version ).

 - But, now that I am a better human in all respects and sport a longer beard ( and hence greater accompanying patience ) : I googled a bit more and found [this]({{page.wsl_diskpart}})

 - And now, I'm happy.

