---
title: "IKN0X2223: Epistemological Cartography (The Panacea for Delusional but Aspiring Rationals)"
date: 2024-04-05T05:54:07+05:30
categories: ["Polymathy"]
tags: ["documentation","epistemology","cartography","that's-what-she-said","muse","conquest","ambition","delusional","mythology","poetry","rhetoric"]
---

*check out what an IKN0x means [here](https://rajpatil.dev/post/ikn0x0/)*

*Snap-shotting projections of the mind over time is a good habit
that you should practice.*  

I will try my best to persuade you of that...  

An over-powered upside to pursuing multiple interests
over the span of your life is to have the ability to compare and
contrast multiple domains, akin to having multiple hill forts over
your territory than only establishing a centralized castle.  

In your conquests towards expanding your epistemological empire, you will
have to chart out where you've been and what you've marked to be
explored sometime down the lane.  

## Documentation doesn't have to be a duty

Documentation, compared to actually building abstractions, is
considered to be a somewhat inferior activity.  

I personally have struggled with boredom as well when it came to documenting my
deliverables from time to time at work.  

I do acknowledge the importance of good documentation in any domain to
help collaborators catch up to speed quickly and consequently speed up
the expansion of the domain.  

But I also do acknowledge that exploring nascent domains like an
intellectual vagabond, or more ambitiously - an epistemological
explorer, is a funner way to go about it.  

My personality isn't quite the one that would like to criticise and
account for existing discoveries but discover blooming phenomena
myself.  

Not that I look down on such structured duties but I'd
frame it as me admiring other cups of tea better.  

[Epistemology](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Epistemology) and
[Cartography](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cartography) are fairly
[fundamental domains that one could benefit by the merger of](https://buffer.rajpatil.dev/%2F20231003181631-epistemological_cartography.html).  

Intellectually charting out the philosophical theory of knowledge
helps one undertake the task of building the bigger picture (or
better yet, architect the matrix (I'm inclined to assume the
existence of one)) in a more
delusionally ambitious and enthusiastic manner.  

## Don't "Don't Document" Stuff

Thinking in consequences of not carrying out a task can potentially turn out to
be a better incentive than focusing on the gains of doing
so: I regularly use the notion of negative rewards to keep me from
avoiding a necessary task.  

*Snap-shotting projections of the mind over time is a "good" habit
that you "should" practice.*  

That didn't sound quite compelling, right?  

Let me hit you with what ensues if you choose otherwise:

#### Static Personality Syndrome

Regular self-reflections indicate that you don't even need to put in
the effort to really change an aspect about yourself : it's an
inevitable characteristic of any abstraction that exists over a
relatively long duration.  

Lack there-of might result in an unjustified bias of your core
thoughts being stagnant.  

You probably just aren't registering the minor updates on a regular
basis for an observable change to accumulate in an aware manner.  

Still don't quite feel what I wish to convey, right?  

Lemme infuse some intensity...  

#### The Minotaur of Eureka

[Theseus laid out a red
thread](https://www.greekmyths-greekmythology.com/myth-of-theseus-and-minotaur/)
to help him traverse the labyrinth.  

After chancing upon an intriguing insight, you run the risk of losing
your intellectual bearing simply cause of the hormonal implications of
a eureka.  

Now, there's nothing wrong with enjoying the occasional
epistemological high but you have to retain a few designated drivers
to take you back to a stable thought process again.  

I speak from experience : marrying an elegant idea when you're sloshed 
in Vegas doesn't last as you'd want it to and ends up with
regrets. Love at first sight sounds romantic (and it is) but I like to
hedge my paths when it comes to wisdom (doing it with women is
probably not a wise piece of advice).  

I recommend courting an idea over multiple dates, testing out if you
really are for each other and only then promoting that idea to a
personified muse.  

[Reverse chronological
streams](https://buffer.rajpatil.dev/20230712132109-timestamps.html)
are my map (the red thread) saving me from the trauma of recursive introspection
(the labyrinth) and consequent intellectual burnouts (the minotaur) :
my journals (my epistemologial Ariadne) helped me realized the
importance of always logging my exits and entries, however meager -
prominence wise - they initially seem to be.  

If you're not the techno-mythical kind of human (that is really,
really sad), this won't hit hard as well ...  

Maybe.., I'll try casting a much wider wider net to mesmerize the largest
chunk of personalities I can imagine - a lil'bit of poetic imagery to
the rescue ...

#### The Gardener and the Butterfly

Let's paint a picture...,  

In this garden of domains do you wish to be the eternally euphoric
butterfly that roams around experiencing the flowers of the
instantaneous present, potentially sacrificing macro-awareness..  

or  

Do you wish to be the gardener tending to a more elaborate context, to
see your tendees (domains that you tend to (this isn't a word)) mature
and flourish into trees, yielding calm shades, allowing you to enjoy
the butterflies while you sip away on a warm cup of coffee..  

To emphasize the already evident, I prefer the latter and am willing to put in the hardwork that goes into maturing your edgy intellect into peaceful
wisdom.  

## Document Stuff

***Snap-shotting projections of the mind over time is a GOOD habit that you SHOULD practice.***  

Now, I hope that hit just the right spot, leaving you calm and
satisfied (That's what the muse said in my head) ...  
